The Governing Body
has always felt a keen responsibility
to live up to Jesus’ command:
“Feed my lambs. . . .
Shepherd my little sheep.”
Today’s technology
makes the Governing Body feel like family.
But did the worldwide brotherhood
in times past
enjoy such a strong bond
with the Governing Body?
Let’s go back to January of 1945.
Brothers Knorr and Franz
set out on a tour of Latin America
that ended up
with conventions in North America.
It took four months.
The purpose was to visit
branches already established,
to organize new branches,
and to forward the movement
of the Kingdom preaching work.
Service tours often combined
supervising operations at a branch,
giving talks at conventions,
dedicating new facilities,
overnight visits to remote missionary homes,
followed by evening meetings
with a local congregation.
All this was packed into a few days.
They provided instruction
on the field ministry,
how to conduct meetings,
and also on what was taking place
in the worldwide field.
And then they would take time
to go out into the field ministry with them.
One such visit included
a stopover in Guatemala,
where they visited a very small congregation
of just eight people.
Their heart was in the preaching work.
I can speak from my own experience
that the missionaries
were very close to Brother Knorr’s heart.
So after sending them first to Latin America,
he was eager to see their progress.
And so he visited them.
And then, over the years,
he traveled the world
and he visited as many missionary homes
as he possibly could.
He privately met each missionary personally
to talk over their challenges,
to arrange
for better accommodations if needed,
to assess the potential for growth,
or even to establish a new branch
or arrange to purchase new property
if needed.
Brother Knorr loved the brotherhood,
especially missionaries
and branch personnel.
And he would take the opportunity
of a 15- or 20-minute stopover
in a train station or an airport
to give encouragement
or to help them
to advance the preaching work.
Brother Knorr had deep concern
for the welfare of the brothers
in the war-torn countries of Europe.
Brothers Knorr and Henschel
traveled to Britain, France,
Switzerland, Belgium,
the Netherlands, and Scandinavia
in November 1945.
Imagine, just a few months
after World War II ended,
the railroad track was destroyed
and bridges were destroyed.
So there were no good connections
between the cities.
It was not tourist travel;
it was really hard work.
But even this they did
because of loving the brothers
and helping and encouraging
the brothers in these countries.
After visiting the friends
in war-torn Europe,
then Brothers Knorr and Henschel embarked
on a very ambitious and extensive
47,000-mile (76,000 km) tour.
They visited some lands
where there were few or even no Witnesses.
If no branch operated
in a country they visited,
they connected with the local congregations
in private homes,
they attended their meetings,
and they accompanied the local publishers
to the homes of interested ones
for group meetings.
And they often rented venues
for public meetings.
Brothers Knorr and Henschel
went on the streets to advertise the talk
that evening.
And then Brother Knorr himself
even rode with bicycle parades
to advertise his talks.
And these meetings attracted
hundreds of interested ones,
even though in one city,
there was a threatening note
that was received.
Well, things don’t always turn out
as planned.
Brother Knorr and Brother Henschel
had a service tour of countries in Africa.
One of those was Nigeria,
and they were to give talks
at two conventions.
One of those conventions
was 400 miles (640 km) away
and involved a road trip.
So they got off to an early start
at 3:30 in the morning.
On into the trip,
they started to have car problems.
Those car problems
turned into a grueling 18-hour delay,
and they realized
they weren’t going to make the convention.
So they decided
to go back to the branch in Lagos.
But the return trip took 24 hours
through jungle roads
and additional car problems.
They got back to the branch,
they took a very brief rest,
and they were on to the next branch.
Brother Knorr loved the brothers,
and he enjoyed being with them.
I remember very well
how after his concluding talk,
he waved to the brothers
and we in the audience took out handkerchiefs
and waved back for many minutes.
But that was not all.
He and Brother Henschel
then went to the railroad station
to say farewell to the brothers
leaving in special trains.
They called out
“Auf Wiedersehen! Gute Reise!”
and they stayed there
till 10:30 at night doing that.
They thought not of their comfort,
but they thought of the brothers.
A request to hold a large special meeting
in Athens in 1952
was not granted by the authorities
because of religious interference.
But not wanting to miss an opportunity
to encourage the Greek brothers,
Brother Knorr came up with an alternate plan.
He and Brother Henschel would take taxis
to the homes of local brothers,
where they would give a talk
for approximately 20 minutes.
Then they would go on to another home,
even though they risked arrest
because of meeting together.
They were able to meet
with 905 of our Greek brothers.
In describing that day, Brother Knorr wrote,
“It was one of the most blessed experiences
of our lives.”
Brother Franz visited Spain many times,
but during the 1950’s,
our work was under ban.
Brother Franz wanted to encourage
the local brothers,
but he was especially concerned
for their safety.
On this one event,
Brother Franz and his driver
decided to park their car
near the home of their host,
a certain Brother Garcia, who was a mechanic.
So with the hood of the car open,
they asked a neighbor,
“Is there a mechanic in the area?”
Of course, he was referred to Brother Garcia.
Brother Garcia
then looked at the car and said,
“Your car needs to come into my shop.”
That was the opportunity
for Brother Franz to meet
some local brothers and sisters.
When it was time to walk
to the meeting later that day,
Brother Franz decided to wear the beret
and a sheepskin coat typical for the area
so that he would safely blend in
with his brothers.
Well, these brothers were
very loving and courageous men.
They worked very hard
to keep the brothers
in countries under ban fired up with zeal,
even risking their own safety.
Brother Franz actually was arrested
while meeting with the brothers
in Barcelona, Spain.
Well, these schedules that they kept
must have been exhausting.
If a country under ban was on the itinerary,
they might pay a visit
to government officials
to promote legalization of our work.
Brother Knorr visited all of the branches
to encourage the brothers,
and he talked with the missionaries.
But in the 1950’s, there was much growth,
and that proved to be too much for him alone.
So he decided that it would be appropriate
to train some of us brothers
so that we could assist in that work
and see that the shepherding was done
and that the work in the branches
was done in unity.
On the service tour of Africa in 1963,
Brother Henschel attended the convention
at Gbarnga, Liberia.
Suddenly, soldiers invaded the convention.
They arrested Brother Henschel and others.
He was mistreated
—beaten with a rifle butt to the point
where he thought he was going to die.
But he remained on the scene to encourage
and assist the brothers to be faithful,
to avoid compromise.
And when finally he was released,
instead of going home,
he completed his assignment
to visit other branches
and upon return
never acted the part of a hero or martyr.
It was just the cost
of doing the Lord’s business.
Well, the headquarters representatives
wanted the best
for delegates to a convention.
Brothers Knorr and Henschel were known
to personally inspect venues
and even negotiate contracts.
In more recent times,
Brother Jaracz personally visited hotels
to make sure that there was a proper standard
of comfort and cleanliness.
He even tested out the beds.
Brother Knorr was well-aware of the situation
that the brothers were facing
in the Soviet Union.
He wrote many letters
in which he called on the brothers
to live in harmony
under the direction of the organization.
One such letter
fell into the hands of the KGB.
They altered it.
But when Brother Knorr was told about it,
he drew the brothers’ attention
to the spirit of the letter
because from the spirit of the letter
it would be evident immediately
whether it was a letter from the organization
or a forged letter.
This is because the spirit
of the organization
serves to unite the brothers,
not divide them.
All this attention
to the international activity
was taking place
while simultaneously directing
the work and expansion at world headquarters,
handling various legal issues,
organizing and speaking at conventions
throughout the United States,
Gilead School lectures and graduations,
annual meeting programs,
and all the while taking care
of their own spiritual well-being
and that of their wife if married.
The next few decades
would see even greater growth
but also greater challenges.